May 5th 2024

mi 0 -> mi 26

I jokingly said to my mom that I’d do 26ish miles in unison with all the homies who ran today and it ended up coming true. 

Pretty gosh darn good first day. Stayed at Scout and Frodos last night after getting at 11pm and knocked out until 7am when a delicious breakfast was served. Such a nice setup they got for hikers. Big thanks to them for letting me crash the night. 

One guy (Jack) at Scout and Frodos was apparently down to Uber/lyft to the terminus and I quickly tracked them down to get that ride share plan in motion. Such a shame public transport wasn’t running on the weekend/holiday. Split the ride with Jack which ended up being 50 buckaroos.. still cheaper than the shuttle at 75. Decent chat whole way with him, he went to school in Portland and just graduated a couple days ago- pretty hype. We got dropped off at CLEEF, walked up the half ish mile to the southern terminus/trump wall and had a mini photoshoot. Hellish weather though, misty rain and strong winds. Didn’t want to dilly dally too long so I got going after talking to the trail folks checking permits.

Went back down to CLEEF to find a campfire and lots of hikers huddled around. Warmed up for a bit around the fire but soon got going with Robbie once it started to clear up. Soon upon leaving shelter area we were waved down by this passing van. This family hanging out at CLEEF for the weekend had a cooler full of tamales and the mother plugged me and Robbie the fudge up. Not even a mile in and we got our first trail magic. Robbie talked to the lady like he knew her when he had just met her. Friendly ass guy- Cuyahoga falls fella. We hiked together for 10 joyful miles as the weather cleared up. Talked about the trades (he’s an electrician), the AT, and unjustified Ohio slander. Views were fricking great during this section, so much diversity in the desert. Lotta interesting plants and flowers, tons of bushes lining the trail. Passed a couple of folks whose names I forget and were cruising for a bit until Robbie decided to take things more slow for his foot. 

I was solo for the rest of the day and the trail past mile 10 was weirdly but pleasantly empty. During this section I was meandering down and up this canyon so it was a special experience to feel like the only one out there in the vast expanse. I did eventually see one guy around mile 17 who seemed a bit demoralized about the climb, hope he’s doing alright. View of Lake Morena at the top was sweeet with the soft lighting. Saw a ton of bunnies up here too, they’re a bit cuter out here I’ll say.

Lots of neat rocks today, wondering what kind of rocks form here and why they did. Feet were feeling pretty fatigued by mile 20 so took some time to let them air out when getting water. Didn’t break in the shoes at all either which could be another variable. Wasn’t sure where I wanted to camp at but just pressed on until mile 23 where there was a dope site atop the ridge overlooking the lake but was pretty much filled up by these folks who were flying a drone (is that legal?). Ate most of my cold soaked dinner here though on a beautiful piece of rock that was practically a sofa. Descended down to the river, did a suspect river crossing on an almost submerged log and cruised on through a meadow for the final miles of the day. Got darker quicker than I expected but I still made it to camp before 8. Quickly chatted up Ed and his gf? at the site while eating rest of dinner than begrudgingly setup my tarp since the clouds tonight look mean. Maybe too ambitious of a first day but felt pretty good the whole time and wasn’t vibing with any of the campspots before 26. 
